Let's talk about TanStack Router.
Somebody in chat right now is just smashing their keyboard.
What about React Router? Let me get to you
first before you ask me that question,
because I know someone is out there
just immediately just pouncing on that.
What about React Router? What about it?
That's it. Now TanStack Router, I'm just kidding.
TanStack Router, why did we choose TanStack Router for
this particular course?
Historically, I've taught React Router
for almost every iteration of this.
There was one that I taught Reach Router,
which then got folded into React Router.
So, effectively React Router.
Couple of thoughts here.
If you want React Router, you can go to V8 of this course.
So it's just React V8 hold courses.
And you can see right here, React Router,
all of this is very applicable, up to date.
Feel free to pop in there and look at that.
The reason why I chose TanStack Router
for this particular course is that TanStack Router
is very focused on client-side React routing.
That's what their goal is.
That's their primary use case.
And React Router has, I'm gonna go with equal attention
for server-side routing with AKA remix, right?
And client-side routing.
It works very well in client-side situations.
Feel free to still use React Router.
You'll get only slight side eye from me.
I'm just kidding, it's great.
Totally fine, and I've used it for years.
But I appreciated the direction of TanStack Router
and their exclusive focus on client-side routing,
which fit better with this course.
So they work quite similar.
So learning one, you're gonna get a kind of a rough feel
of what the other one works like anyway.
But that's why we chose it for this one.
They've actually announced that React Router V7 and remix,
they're converging, they're gonna be the same thing.
So remix will eventually just be React Router again.
So hopefully that's enough of an explanation
of why I chose TanStack Router.
It was a bit of a controversial decision,
but I think you'll be very pleasantly surprised
that it's a really good developer experience.
I really like it.
I've been using it quite a bit.
So docs are great.
Feel free to pop in here and look at their docs.
We are gonna also be using TanStack Query today as well,
so that it fit really well.
TanStack start is kind of their version of remix next,
where it's kind of a more full stack solution,
or maybe even closer like create React app.
It's kind of their more opinionated meta framework
for TanStack.
And then I've looked a little bit at store as well.
This is essentially their redux,
which I have not used hardly at all
because I don't think I need it anymore.
Anyway, they have a bunch of really cool components.
Forms are interesting.
I think virtual is the one that allows you to do,
yeah, like you have like a massive UI.
Let's say you have to render a million rows of a table.
TanStack virtual can help you with stuff like that as well.
In general, React has just a phenomenal ecosystem
of really cool stuff.
And today we're gonna be using two stuff from TanStack
just because they happen to work really well together,
but you should definitely go explore.
If you have some idea of like,
man, I wish there was a code editor
that I could use in React.
Lo and behold, there's definitely a code editor
that you can use in React.
There's a text editor.
There's all sorts of cool stuff.
We are using router today.
Other thing to mention here is in intermediate React,
we will be using something more full stack.
Have not decided, but likely next, right?
Just because again,
that's kind of the ones that people default to.
So in other words,
we will not be using TanStack router in intermediate.
So if that's something you're interested, stay tuned.
We'll talk about it.
And again, I just wanna emphasize,
you're spoiled for choice here.
There's a lot of good choices.
Again, React router, totally valid here.
Okay, so open your project.
You can pause your VEAT server for a second.
And we are going to MPM install at TanStack
React-router.
1.65.0.
There might be a new version of it available,
but again, this is all the versions I tested together.
I'm gonna do MPM install dash capital D.
Again, I would just grab these directly off the docs
because it's a mouthful to say out loud.
But it's this one here.
So TanStack we put into the normal dependencies
because it's actually gonna go out to production, right?
And these ones are dev tools.
So there's a router plugin
that we're gonna provide to VEAT.
And there are dev tools that we're gonna install as well.
So there's like actual tools that they build into it
that make it easier to use.
Okay, so install both of those.
The nice thing about React does this,
TanStack does this as well.
Did you notice that all the versions are the same?
That's because whenever they would cut a new version
of any of them, they just cut a new version of all of them.
And so if you're using 1.65.0, you just know as like,
oh, I just grab all of those
and I know all those work together.
So you don't have to worry about
which one do I use with which.
It is kind of like, oh, I just grabbed all of those
It is kind of annoying though,
because you end up with like,
there's a bunch of versions of them
that don't do anything, right?
It's literally just another cut of the same previous one,
but the cost you pay.
Okay, let's go to VEAT, our VEAT config.
And we need to import TanStack router VEAT
from at TanStack router plugin slash VEAT.
So you can see there's a webpack version of this as well,
as well as our spec, which I know less about that one.
I think that's a rust one.
Anyway, definitely not the point of this course.
Plugins, be sure to add this before react here.
We're just gonna put the same thing here, just like that.
This makes a TanStack router aware
of basically where all your routes are going.
It adds some niceties,
and I'll show you some of those as we get going.
One of them is you're gonna see generated in your code
is routetree.gen.ts.
It's nice that this is a TypeScript file,
because VS Code can read it and read the types,
and it's gonna just make
all the type completions work really well.
This is a generated file from TanStack router
that you'll import into your project.
You do check it into Git.
Generally, you don't check any generated files into Git,
but this one you do,
and it'll just continue to get regenerated
as your project goes on.
So inside of your source directory,
we're going to create a new directory inside of that.
So let's just go ahead and click plus,
and we're gonna just call it routes.
And let's make a underscore, underscore,
so double underscore, or the Dunder,
as I was informed as it's called.
I did not make that up.
The Dunder.
It's a Python thing, apparently.
It's rowdy Pythonistas.
So route.jsx.
This is basically like what is your route,
or what is every route in your page gonna have?
I mean, I guess it's probably worth stepping back
as like, what are we doing here in the first place?
We're making a single page application, a spa, right,
that has multiple different pages.
So it's gonna have an order page,
it's gonna have a past orders page,
and it's gonna have a contact page.
And we wanna be able to route from page to page.
We want them to have unique URLs.
That's all the stuff
that we're gonna be working on right now.
The route.jsx file is basically like,
what code do all of these share together?
Like, what is the route
of all of these page files look like?
So that's what we're gonna do here.
And this is what we're gonna put in it.
We're gonna say import, use state,
from react, import, create, route, route
from Tanstack router, as well as outlet.
We're gonna import the Tanstack dev tools.
Pizza of the day.
We're basically recreating what was in app.jsx.
We're gonna make app.jsx much smaller,
and most of the stuff is gonna live in the route.
Import the header.
And import cart context from contexts.
Export default function from contexts.
Oh no, sorry, export, sorry, export const route.
That becomes important with,
it's just a convention with Tanstack router
that's gonna be looking for route.
So you do have to call it that.
Create route route.
And you just give it the component that it expects.
Now, you can give this just a function directly here.
You could make another function
and then reference that in there.
That's totally up to you.
We're just, with this one,
we're just gonna put it in there.
Okay, const cart hook.
It's basically, I mean, you could even just go
into app.jsx and get some of this, right?
So basically everything inside a strict mode.
Return.
And then we have to make the cart hook up here.
Okay, cart provider, put it inside of a div header.
We're gonna replace order with something else.
We're gonna call this outlet.
This is the part that's gonna get swapped out, right?
So this is actually what's going to be rendered
onto the page.
And then we're gonna be able to switch
all of our different pages into this particular thing.
So order is one of the pages, right?
Then they're gonna click the about page
and the about page is gonna load.
Then they're gonna click that and it's gonna swap that out.
The outlet is where that actually ends up.
I'm gonna show you one more weird trick.
We don't have to do it this way,
but I just wanted to show you how to do this.
Let's say I wanted to, down here at the bottom,
put in dev tools, right?
This is mad.
Why is this mad?
Because you can only return one, or like one thing.
Yep.
It's the same reason I can't do something like this,
where I say like const thing equals one comma five.
There are languages that let you do this, right?
But JavaScript is not among them.
You can only return one thing at a time
and this is returning two different things, right?
This is returning this and this.
Because they're siblings and there's not one thing
encapsulating both of them, it won't let you do that.
So if I wanted to have thing to be both of these things,
what would I do?
Just make an array out of it, right?
Now it's fine, because you have one array
that contains both those things.
You can also do this with React.
And it's with this weird syntax that looks like this.
So it's an empty tag, right?
And then this is like an empty closing tag.
Remember, what does React do in these situations?
It just wraps stuff in arrays, right?
So that's literally what this is.
This is just wrapping these two things in array.
Make sense?
Yeah, kind of strange, but that is how that works.
So if you find yourself like,
I wanna return two things as sibling at the top,
that's when you're gonna use something like this.
I notice we lost strict mode in the transition.
I'm not sure if that's important for you.
We are gonna put that in, we're gonna leave that in app.
Oh, aha.
But astute, that is astute.
So let's head over to app.jsx
and make our modifications over here as well.
So we don't need use state anymore,
because we're not gonna be doing that in here anymore.
We're doing that in the root route.
We need create root, that's good.
We don't need pizza of the day.
We don't need order.
We don't need header.
All that stuff exists in our root route.
We don't need that.
So we do need our import route provider
from Tanstack React Router.
And we also need a create router function.
This one.
Okay.
Oh, and then the other thing,
we need to use that generated file
that it's about to generate for us.
So just trust me on this one that there's no file here now,
but it will be by the time that we care.
Import route tree from this soon to be generated
dot slash routeTree.gen.
So again, it doesn't exist yet,
but you'll see this show up shortly.
Const router equals create router with root tree.
Get rid of this cart hook in here.
Get rid of that.
In fact, most of this stuff can be given away
or just deleted.
We'll leave strict mode in here.
You might ask why.
It could be moved to the other one,
but my tendency is to wrap everything in strict mode, right?
So that's why.
And then all we have to do here is say route provider,
router equals router, and that's it.
Tanstack Router handles the rest of it for us.
Right now we have order.jsx as just a component.
In reality, it's kind of a route, right?
Let me, it's a cert.
That is, it is a route, so we need to go make it a route.
So we're gonna move order into routes.
We're gonna move.
You can say update the imports.
Yes, please.
Notice that it's now going, instead of dot slash,
it's doing dot dot slash.
That's the updates that it did for us.
And then we're gonna rename this to,
and this is their convention.
I would have been tempted to name this with an uppercase,
but they don't.
Order, lowercase o, and we're gonna call it lazy.jsx.
This is signifying to Tanstack Router,
I want you to lazy load this.
So you just put it in the name,
and it's gonna know exactly what you want.
It's like, okay, I'm gonna split the route,
or the package here, and I'll load this later.
Whenever the user requests the order page,
they'll get this, but they won't load it until then,
which is kinda cool.
If I didn't put that there, and it was just order.jsx,
it would just load it immediately every single time.
In our particular case,
our components and our routes are fairly small.
I probably wouldn't lazy load these.
I probably would just load everything every single time.
But if you're building an app of any size,
these routes tend to get a little bit bigger
every single time.
So in that case, I probably would lazy load them,
which is why I'm gonna show you today
everything we're just gonna lazy load.